We will now focus on the different states of a trade.
So what are the different states that a thread object can be in three states New bannable running blocked
or terminated.
So those are the different states that a specific threat.
So let's say that this piece of code the line one is banning it is to continue batting statistics thread
and we are starting the batting thread here and here.
BOLLING are using the we are implementing the Runnable interface so Barling statistics the way we are
creating it is a little different but online fight restyled the bad things.
So a trip is a new state or when an object of the trade is created.
But stock better does not get called in.
And what we are creating a new instance of this thread in the link do we are invoking the start method
on that thread.
So at the completion of line 1 execution the batting statistics thread is a new speed because the stock
method is not yet called on it.
So that's called a new state.
Another example would be the bowling statistics thread.
So we are reading the thread here and before we start this thread to just after creating the line for
I've just Afflecks using line for the thread would be wrapped in a new state.
So that's the new start.
Basically when the thread is created instead of the thread is ready but you have not really called the
stock method on it.
The next two states that we would discuss are runnable and running one to kick of this door on a thread.
It can be in any of these forward States.
So either the threat is right of running then it's called running state.
The thread is ready to run.
It's not waiting for anything but it's still not running then it's in a reasonable state.
The trade is waiting for some to complete.
I'm waiting for some resource or some other operation to complete.
So then I am in a blog or evading state if I have completed execution then I am in a terminated order.
They did.
So these are the five different states.
So if you actually run this program back in school districts and the polling statistics together you'd
see that sometimes by adding school districts run it is running sometimes Boling said districts.
The red is running because they have equal priority.
What DCP does.
I mean the way the CPI is allocated is Scipio's allocated for sometime to this sometime sometime today.
And some time to this.
So when the batting trade is running then the bowling thread would be in a reasonable state but it's
not running because it's not the current thread which is running.
And then the bat bowling thread is running then the bowling thread is running state.
If the bowling thread is running then the battings thread is innervate kind of a state then that because
of bad things it is not really waiting for anything.
Then it's in a state called nable.
If the banning trade is waiting because it's waiting for some download to happen or some Are you then
it's called it's no blog state and when debating said thread completes execution then it goes into a
state called determinatives did what this parody of a thread.
Plenty of this thread is very important in the sense that if a thread has higher priority than the scheduler
might get more people to that thread.
So by default the priority is assigned to a job where it is fine.
If I'm not setting any priority then by default it gets a priority 5.
What you can actually increase or decrease the priority so the range is one to 10 and if to return weighting
then the scheduler ideally picks the thread with the highest ability to run.
Way you can set priority on the thread is by thread that set priority.
So there is a max parity min polarity constants that you can use to set the priority on the set.
So then this highest priority one is the least priority that you can assign to a thread.
The next thing that we want to talk about is the execute this is what is executing servies exude.
So this is one of the new interfaces which is present in Java and it's a whole new way of exiting us
in the background.
So as you can kind of think of an excuse to service very similar.
Very similar to a thread pool.
You have a pool of thread and you want to pick one of them and execute them.
Here we see an example of an exe this is we are creating a new thread executor's so executor's or news.
Single thread executed and we are sending it to and execute us.
And then we can create a new thread creating a new thread by using the Runnable interface implementing
the reasonable interface and creating a new thread and I can use the executed service to execute this
thread.
And once this this thread will now be kicked off in badly this does or it would create off a new thread
and it would complete execution.
So what are the different ways of creating exude services.
If I just want to create one thread then I can use exit to start new Singleton executor.
If I would want to create a fixed thread pool then I would actually use the new thread pool.
And how many threads that you would want to create.
If you want to use this scheduling feature I mean if you want to delay execution or things like that
then you can create a new scheduled thread pool.
So here you can actually give some delay or execute certain trade periodically.
The great thing about don't exude a service is when you use an exe you do service to exit the task.
You can also check if the task has completed or not.
The way we do that is use something called the future.
So once you have an exe you do so with one and submit a new reasonable thing.
You can get the future as the output and once the task is completed then the future get method will
return null.
The great thing about Dig's so is it's this new feature called callable call earlier.
The only way to read can be to know value is by storing some value in a file or something of that kind.
But the callable what we are able to do is we are able to return a result from the thread.
So now you can say this is the result from the thread and I can take that value and print it here.
So if you look at it here future from callable.
I'm calling that thread.
So I'm calling it thread and that thread can actually result return is back.
The syntax is a little different.
Instead of runnable we have callable interface and instead of run method we have a call method and we
can return the result here.
And you can use the get better on the future to get the result from DiCarlo but.